---
title: "Ms. Paymer's Code Defenders"
date: 2018-06-03
unity_dir: CPSIBuild
categories:
  - General
tags:
  - test
---

## Ms. Paymer's Code Defenders
In celebration of Ms. Paymer's 8 years of service at Campo, you are invited to play Ms. Paymer's Code Defenders! Pick from 7 different levels and blast those bugs! Please read the instructions before playing as they explain a lot. Instructions are not included in the game itself.

## How does this game work?
This game is basically Space Invaders (with powerups) - shoot at the aliens, and don't let them shoot you! If you touch an alien, it's an instant game over!

## Controls
- WASD/Arrow keys to move
- Space/click to shoot

## Powerups
Powerups drop randomly when you destroy an alien.
- Round gray thing outlined in black - For loop: You shoot 3 bullets at once
- Blue square thing - Arraylist: You shoot 1 bullet, which will destroy the alien it hits PLUS the alien to the left, right, and above.
- Yellow triangle thing - OOP: Press space once to shoot a parent bullet, and then press space again to shoot 3 children bullets outward from where the parent bullet was.
- White square thing with green and blue inside - TA: Spawns 2 helper ships that move back and forth and shoot automatically. They will be destroyed after 2 hits from alien bullets. If a powerup drops on them, nothing happens (the powerup is destroyed).
- Orange rectangle thing - Recursion: Spawns 3 stacks of protective walls you can hide behind. Alien bullets will slowly destroy the stacks, but your bullets will not do anything to them. Your bullets also won't go through the stacks, however.
- Pumpkin - Extra life

## Other notes
- CompSci level is recommended to start out.
- If you run into a bug, please leave a comment with as much info as you can (what happens, how to reproduce bug)
- This game is also available to play at https://ashz.itch.io/ms-paymers-code-defender (but it's blocked at school)

## Credits
- Code & art: Ashley Zhang
  - Code is available at https://github.com/AshZhang/CPSI
- Music:
  - "Overworld" Kevin MacLeod (incompetech.com) Licensed under Creative Commons: By Attribution 3.0 License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/
  - "Delightful D" Kevin MacLeod (incompetech.com) Licensed under Creative Commons: By Attribution 3.0 License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/
  - "8bit Dungeon Level" Kevin MacLeod (incompetech.com) Licensed under Creative Commons: By Attribution 3.0 License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/
  - "Digital Lemonade" Kevin MacLeod (incompetech.com) Licensed under Creative Commons: By Attribution 3.0 License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/
- Playtesters: Morgan Langstaff, Athya Uthayakumar, Betty Yee
- And of course, this game would not be possible without Ms. Paymer and her invaluable service to her students! Thank you Ms. Paymer, and we wish you a happy retirement!
